Tertiary lymphoid structures signature predicts prognosis and clinical benefits from adjuvant chemotherapy and PD-L1 blockade in colorectal adenocarcinoma.

Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) are emerging biomarkers for enhanced anti-tumoral immunity and treatment efficacy in colorectal cancer (CRC). This study aimed to develop a CRC-specific TLS signature and evaluate its predictive roles in survival prognosis and therapeutic responses to chemotherapy; and PD-1 blockade. Transcriptomic data from TCGA database were analyzed to established a TLS signature. Survival and treatment responses were validated in multiple cohorts; including TCGA cohort; RJ cohort (neoadjuvant FOLFOX; n = 16); CH (neoadjuvant sintilimab; n = 17); and several GEO datasets. Genetic mutations; tumor microenvironment (TME) features; and its spatial interactions were assessed via maftools; Bayesprism; CIBERSORT; IBOR; TIMER 2.0; NicheNet analysis and multiplex immunofluorescence. Tumor-immune cells co-cultured miniPDX/PDO models were used to validate PD-1 blockade in MSS CRC. In TCGA cohort; Patients in TLS_high group exhibited significantly longer overall survival (P = 0.008) and demonstrated a higher proportion of complete response/partial response (CR/PR) (P = 0.017). Further analyses on TME revealed that tumor mutation burden was positively correlated with TLS signature scores (R = 0.31; P < 0.001). High TLS scores depicted a higher proportion of CD8 + T cells; B cells; and dendritic cells; increased activation of anti-tumoral signaling pathways; enhanced cytokines secretion; and higher immune checkpoints expression; including CTLA4; LAG3; and TIM3. Sensitive group in RJ cohort and clinical CR group in CH cohort scored higher of TLS signature (P < 0.05); and depicted activation of signaling pathways related to TLS formation. Mature TLS and enhanced intercellular receptor-ligand interactions were identified. miniPDX/PDO models confirmed TLS-driven PD-1 blockade sensitivity in MSS CRC. The CRC-specific TLS signature identifies patients with favorable prognosis and enhanced responses to chemotherapy and PD-1 blockade; including MSS CRC resistant to immune checkpoint blockade. TLS abundance reflects an immunogenic TME; offering a biomarker for personalized treatment strategies.