Preoperative assessment of tertiary lymphoid structures in stage I lung adenocarcinoma using CT radiomics: a multicenter retrospective cohort study.

To develop a multimodal predictive model, Radiomics Integrated TLSs System (RAITS), based on preoperative CT radiomic features for the identification of TLSs in stage I lung adenocarcinoma patients and to evaluate its potential in prognosis stratification and guiding personalized treatment. The most recent preoperative chest CT thin-slice scans and postoperative hematoxylin and eosin-stained pathology sections of patients diagnosed with stage I LUAD were retrospectively collected. Tumor segmentation was achieved using an automatic virtual adversarial training segmentation algorithm based on a three-dimensional U-shape convolutional neural network (3D U-Net). Radiomic features were extracted from the tumor and peritumoral areas, with extensions of 2 mm, 4 mm, 6 mm, and 8 mm, respectively, and deep learning image features were extracted through a convolutional neural network. Subsequently, the RAITS was constructed. The performance of RAITS was then evaluated in both the train and validation cohorts. RAITS demonstrated superior AUC, sensitivity, and specificity in both the training and external validation cohorts, outperforming traditional unimodal models. In the validation cohort, RAITS achieved an AUC of 0.78 (95% CI, 0.69-0.88) and showed higher net benefits across most threshold ranges. RAITS exhibited strong discriminative ability in risk stratification, with p < 0.01 in the training cohort and p = 0.02 in the validation cohort, consistent with the actual predictive performance of TLSs, where TLS-positive patients had significantly higher recurrence-free survival (RFS) compared to TLS-negative patients (p = 0.04 in the training cohort, p = 0.02 in the validation cohort). As a multimodal predictive model based on preoperative CT radiomic features, RAITS demonstrated excellent performance in identifying TLSs in stage I LUAD and holds potential value in clinical decision-making.