Prehabilitation during neoadjuvant chemotherapy results in an enhanced immune response in esophageal adenocarcinoma tumors: A randomized controlled trial.

For patients with locally advanced esophagogastric cancer, the standard of care in the UK is neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) followed by surgery. Prehabilitation exercise training can improve physiological function and fitness. If such improvements translate to increased immune infiltration of tumors, exercise could be prescribed as an immune adjuvant during NAC and potentially improve clinical outcomes. As such, we aimed to determine whether prehabilitation increased tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). We assessed 22 patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer on a randomized control trial comparing 16 weeks of low-to-moderate intensity twice weekly supervised and thrice weekly home-based exercise (Prehab: n = 11) to no prehabilitation (Control: n = 11). Our primary outcome was to compare tumor-immune responses between Controls and Prehab. We compared formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumors by high-resolution multispectral immunohistochemistry (mIHC) and NanoString spatial transcriptomics. Secondarily, we determined relationships between changes in fitness to the exercise training and tumor-immune measures. Specifically, we assessed percentage changes in peak cardiorespiratory fitness as assessed by peak oxygen uptake (V̇O We observed that Prehab had significantly more CD8+ lymphocytes in their tumors (mean difference (diff.) = 1.79, 95% confidence interval (95% CI): 0.76‒2.82, p < 0.001) and their stroma (mean diff. = 1.59, 95% CI: 0.66‒2.52, p < 0.001) than the Controls. When normalized to total numbers of TILs, Prehab had higher levels of CD56+ NK cells (median diff. = 0.87, 95% CI: 0.25‒2.18), p = 0.0274), consisting primarily of CD56 We show that exercise training during NAC, which promotes higher levels of cardiorespiratory fitness than no exercise, is associated with increased frequencies of TILs and maturity of TLS. These data suggest that exercise during NAC enhances the immune system. Future studies are warranted to understand the clinical consequences of this.